# Human-Activity-Recognition-Using-ML
The experiments were carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. They performed a protocol of activities composed of six basic activities: three static postures (standing, sitting, lying) and three dynamic activities (walking, walking downstairs and walking upstairs). The experiment also included postural transitions that occurred between the static postures. These are: stand-to-sit, sit-to-stand, sit-to-lie, lie-to-sit, stand-to-lie, and lie-to-stand. All the participants were wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist during the experiment execution. We captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz using the embedded accelerometer and gyroscope of the device.
The obtained dataset was randomly partitioned into two sets, where 50% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 50% the test data.
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of 561 features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.
# Methodlogy
Colinearlity check to remove features with high correlation factor between them
Multiple pipeplines created to compare the model accuracy.
